---
​---
title: Home
permalink: /MLM-IV/
​---
---

# Title: MLM-IV Documentation

#### Authors: Lars Thomsen, Kawin Soikum, and Soiwisa Soikum

Affiliation: [GNACODE.INC](www.gnacode.com), Medicine Hat, Alberta, Canada

Email for correspondence: [**Lars Thomsen**](mailto:lt@gnacode.com)

We have four programs for use in simulation and analysis of Langmuir IV Probes based on Merlino RL, [American Journal of Physics, Vol 75, issue 12, pages 1078-1085](https://pubs.aip.org/aapt/ajp/article-abstract/75/12/1078/899100/Understanding-Langmuir-probe-current-voltage?redirectedFrom=fulltext):

1. [**MLM-IV-TheoryPlots**](MLM-IV-TheoryPlots.md), this program plots theoretical plots as outlined by Merlino 2007, and with an overlay of leakage current and capacitive artifacts. In general, it is based in equation 3, and 6 from the paper, and data from 

   

2. [**MLM-IV-SimPlot**](MLM-IV-SimPlot.md), this program generates IV curves with embedded leakage current and capacitive effects, and subjected to a gaussian noise to create a realistic data set. The data are output in the NPY data format which is compatible with MLM-IV-Analysis and other analysis packages as e.g. PlasmaPy

   

3. [**MLM-IV-Analysis**](MLM-IV-Analysis.md), this program analysis a data file in the NPY format generated by the MLM-IV-SimPlot program, and finds a range of parameters electron temperature Te, floating potential Vf, plasma potential Vp, electron saturation current Ie_sat, ion saturation current Ii_sat, electron density ne and ion density ni. It gives two estimates of the plasma potential Vp, one based on peak of the derivative of the IV curve, and another based on the crossing line point of the electron retardation fit, and fit to the electron saturation current - the latter method gives best results. 

   

4. [**MLM-IV-EEDF-Analysis**](MLM-IV-EEDF-Analysis.md), here we use the Druyvesteyn method as an alternative method to find the electron density ne, and the electron temperature Te, and it gives a better estimate compared to the methods in MLM-IV-Analysis 



(N.B. **MLM** stands for "Merlino Langmuir" referring to the 2007 Am.J.Physics paper)

[**PlasmaPy website is here**](https://www.plasmapy.org/)

The documentation for each individual program can be found by clicking on the link in the list above. Here we will outline some general features. The programs are written in Python 3.11. and the requirements.txt file contains a list over the Python libraries and their versions required to run the program. If the programs are downloaded and installed using Git (see [Installation](installation.md))

[**NPY FILE FORMAT**](NPY-Data-Format.md), the NPY file format generated by the MLM-IV-Simplot 

[**MIT LICENSE**](MIT-license.md) for free use

[**ACKNOWLEDGEMENT**](Acknowledgement.md) on use





